[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> What would you need to read
a book that is sitting unopened
in a distant library, or to tell
your friend what is happening
within his or her body, or
to remember beyond this life?
Edgar Cayce has
been able to enter
a super state of
consciousness of infinite
knowing, and claiming
no speciality.
But he said it's something
that we could do ourselves.
My guest today examines
revelations of Cayce readings
about the hidden
powers of the mind.
And he's going to share with
you how this knowledge can
play into your everyday life.
A psychologist, a
researcher, and author--
welcome, Dr. Henry Reed.
Thank you for being with us.
>> Well, thank you, Carolyn.
Yeah.
>> And the book, in particular,
one of the probably most moving
books, where you have done a lot
of research on the Edgar Cayce
readings, is your
book, "Your Mind--
Unlocking Your Hidden Powers."
Even though Edgar Cayce said
that we could all do this,
how difficult is it for us to
even begin to unlock the hidden
powers of our own mind?
>> Well, for example,
we all, most of us,
drive to work every day.
And for many minutes
during that trip,
we're not paying
attention to the driving.
We're thinking about
something else.
And yet we manage
to get there safely.
So who's driving the car?
Now, isn't that amazing, a
power of the mind right there?
>> Yeah.
But he did say that we
have the same capabilities.
Where do we begin?
>> Well, I think we can begin
where our interests are,
what we value most in our life--
our relationships, our jobs,
our hobbies--
to bring that little extra to
it, that extra bit of caring
and creativity.
I mean, there were
so many dimensions
to what he was talking about.
It's more a matter, I
guess, of personal taste.
>> Yeah.
You do a lot of work with Edgar
Cayce's work on dream analysis
or understanding.
Tell us a little
bit about the work
that you're doing in the
world, in your workshops,
with dream understanding.
>> Well, he said that we were
capable of getting guidance,
that we weren't restricted to
book-learning, for example,
in our powers of understanding,
and that guidance could come
to us through dreams, through
daydreams, through hunches,
intuitions.
So I've been exploring all
of those particular realms
to find ways that people
can tap into that guidance
for themselves.
>> There are all kinds of
different dreams that we have.
I think we were
talking about earlier,
some people call
the pizza dreams.
But you say that there is
no, just, dream of the day,
that every dream that we have
can possibly give us a gift.
>> It certainly can.
You can't tell, necessarily,
the value of the dream
from its surface appearance.
Although for most
of us, we're going
to find some dreams give
their gifts right away
and other dreams
take so long to work
with that for all
practical purposes,
perhaps they're unlockable.
But many dreams that
people throw away
do have some particular
value or meaning.
>> Did you pay attention
to your dreams as a child?
>> I did.
I had some favorite dreams.
One of my favorite ones
was directing an orchestra.
And we were making up
the music as we played.
And I couldn't figure out
how the musicians managed
to know what I was making up and
play the song right out there
in front of me as
I would direct it.
>> What did that
come to mean for you?
Or was it--
>> It was just a mystery.
It was magical, you know?
And just, I don't
know what I did
with it as a kid besides just
marvel at how it was possible.
The same with flying--
flying in the dream and
then get out in the morning
and maybe climb up on the roof
and stand there and think,
should I jump?
Should I try it?
It seemed real at night,
but now I don't know.
>> You know, it
seems to me you--
just telling me that story,
it seems to me that that is
the way that you seem
to greet life, too.
Is that true?
>> What's that?
>> It's magical.
You know, it's informative.
It's inspirational.
It's got revelation for you.
>> It certainly is.
I guess maybe that's
why I'm a researcher
and following my curiosity
and willing to try things--
Curious George type of person.
>> I was told by someone else
who does great work in dream
understanding and development
that the dreams that we have
as children, the ones
that we remember,
have a profound insight to the
way we go about living our life
or the perspective from
which we live our life.
Have you found that true?
>> Well, I certainly found
that true in my case.
And we've done
experiments asking people
to remember their
favorite fairy tale.
And that memory
or that choice is
very indicative of
their style of living
or a certain aspect
of their story
that's going to be
very important to them.
>> Could it have something
to do with their healing,
or their potential, or both?
>> Healing, their potential,
challenges that they have
to face.
For example, in the
directing the orchestra,
there was a picture of
an improvisational kind
of a situation involving
me and other people.
And yet at the
same time, there's
this music was evolving.
And this proved to be a
particular skill that I had
of taking a group of people--
we have a general idea of what
we want to have happen.
We don't know how we're
going to get there
and we have to play it by ear.
And yet, things come out.
>> Yeah.
>> Great-- a lot of
improvisation in my own life,
whether it's an improvisational
theater or exploration,
and working in a lot
of different ways.
>> Well, there are a lot
of things that you do
in your workshops and working
with people in their dreams
and understanding their dreams.
And I know there are people
that say they don't dream.
And you've said,
well, there's a way
to know what your dreams
are, that we're all dreaming.
But there's one
thing in particular
that you have done, that
you shared earlier--
the ceremonial group, where the
group comes together and helps
awaken their own
dream awareness.
Why don't you give us
an idea about that?
>> Well, one of the things that
I was concerned with was that
the science of dreams was
becoming too mechanical.
They looked at dreams as being
somehow like an egg factory.
And if they pushed
the right buttons
and pulled the
right levers, they
could make dreams
come out at will.
And that just didn't
seem right to me,
and that some of the
special qualities of dreams,
you'd have to have
something maybe
on the order of a
ritual, something
that would really
engage people's
deep level of interest.
And Edgar Cayce had said
that we would never really
be able to understand the
deeper powers of dreams
unless we created
experiments that really
evoked people's soul desire.
And that was just not
going on in the laboratory.
So I decided to take dreams
out of the laboratory
and put them in a
different context.
And not too far from here,
the Edgar Cayce Foundation
had a camp for children.
So as result of some
dreams that I had,
I erected a tent by
the creek down there.
And I had the kids sleep in the
tent to have special dreams.
And I would let them
get objects from nature
and decorate the tent and make
it into a special sanctuary.
And they'd spend
the day in prayer.
And we would come
and work together
in making up stories and skits
about their problems and issues
that they wanted help
from God in their dreams.
Then they would
sleep in this tent
to have this special dream.
And they would really have
some very interesting dreams
while they were
sleeping in that tent.
And that is one story in
itself about special dreaming.
But they were in a community.
They weren't all by themselves.
They were at camp.
And other kids knew that they
were sleeping in that tent.
And other kids would be curious
about what was going on.
Other kids would come and
tell me about the dreams
that they had while Johnny
was sleeping in the tent.
>> You said you have--
part of your workshop
is a ceremony
where people come together
to dream for someone else.
>> Right.
And this is how it started,
because of kids telling
me the dreams that they
had about other kids who
were off having their special,
we call them, the dream visions
or the dream tent dreams.
So on the basis of that,
we started a process
to see if people could
do it on purpose.
So you get a group
of people together
and let one person volunteer
who had some kind of a problem
or dilemma.
And without saying what it
was, to ask the group for help.
And the group would,
we would promise
to dream for that
person that night.
And so we would go
to sleep not knowing
what the person's question is,
but having made that promise.
We better not forget
our dreams, because we
had said we would deliver them
to that person the next day.
And the interesting thing was,
we'd come back in the morning,
and most people
would have dreams,
but most people would
believe that their dreams had
nothing to do with that
person and their problem.
But in a few minutes of
discussing the dreams
and seeing what
they had in common,
we could easily come
to a guess about
what was bothering that
person, and probably
what they should do about it.
And in some 25 years
of doing that kind
of a ceremony and people doing
it in their homes and so on,
we found that invariably, we're
very helpful with those dreams.
And everybody is surprised.
The person who's
dreamed for just
can't believe that all these
dreams were speaking so
intimately about
their situation,
bringing up feelings
that they hardly
knew that they had until they
were voiced in someone else's
dreams.
And all the dreamers being very
surprised that they could come
up with dreams when
they didn't even
know the person's question.
So it was a very special
and incredible way
of demonstrating
to anybody who is
willing to make the
effort that they
can, with the aid of their
dreams, see around corners.
>> Why is it that we tend to,
or there are those that tend
to pay no attention
to the dreams,
that don't consider
the dreams valuable?
What do you say to
those individuals?
How do you offer to them
some of the benefits
of looking at their dreams?
>> Well, it depends on
their motivation, I suppose.
Are you motivated to know
about the value of dreams?
Are you motivated to
stay in your position
that dreams are
not worth anything?
So the person has
to care, you know?
They have to want to
make that discovery.
>> What are some
of the benefits?
>> Well, it's good to start
some kind of a project,
something that they care
about in their life.
That's where to begin.
Where would it matter to you?
If dreams could help
you, where would you
like their help to be?
And then start
working in that area
yourself, doing your best to
improve that area of your life.
Turn it into a project, and
then expect that your dreams
would help you in some way.
>> You know, there's some
cultures and some tribes that
come together and believe that
first thing in the morning,
that is the reality of your day,
is to get together and share
and discuss what you have
dreamed in the night.
>> How many people in the United
States sit around the breakfast
table and have
family time together?
>> Yeah.
>> You know, it's not--
it's just not our reality.
And that, of course, makes it
very difficult for a family
to cultivate an appreciation
for dreams, if it's going
to be at the breakfast table.
I never remember my family
at the breakfast table.
[LAUGHING]
>> But there are things that
we can ask ourselves about
our dreams to engage more
awareness and more remembrance.
>> Well, certainly having a
journal or a piece of paper
by the bed to record
them would be a big help.
That says, hey, I
care enough about you
to spend the time
writing you down.
You could think about
them during the day.
One game I'd have people
play is sometime after lunch,
ask yourself, what did
you dream this morning?
What did you write down?
And lots of times,
you can't remember
what you wrote that morning.
So just being able to
practice doing that
can be helpful in
improving the memory.
>> Dr. Reed, we need
to pause just a moment,
hear from our supporters.
When we come back,
we'll talk more
about Edgar Cayce
and the research
that Dr. Reed has conducted
on the Edgar Cayce readings,
and the fine work
that he has given us.
Stay tuned.
We'll be back in just a moment.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> And welcome back
to "World of Wisdom."
I'm Carolyn Craft.
And I'm speaking
with Dr. Henry Reed.
And we were talking about
dreams, and how we all
have the ability to know
more from our dreams
and to work with that process.
We had talked about a pre-sleep
suggestion during our break.
Is that sort of a subliminal way
to ignite our dream awareness
and to learn more
from our dreams?
>> I think you have to
understand from the larger
perspective that Edgar Cayce
gave, that the dream is,
but you might say the
remnants of an experience,
and to recognize that while
we're sleeping, we awaken,
really, to our larger soul
self, and that the soul has
experiences during the night.
And those experiences have
repercussions for our day,
whether or not we remember any
of that in the form of a dream.
Going after dreams
per se is really going
after kind of like the
tail of the phenomenon,
because we can, for example,
as we go to sleep at night,
we can, say, pray
that during the night,
our soul will have
the experiences
that we need in order to
advance our cause in whatever
situation.
For example, I
remember just recently
talking to a woman
who was having
problems with her husband
and lack of communication.
And when she went
to sleep at night,
she would pray that
while they slept,
their soul would communicate
about this situation.
And just to keep doing that each
night and expecting that one
day, down the road, they would
find themselves spontaneously
in communication.
And with regard to
another aspect of that,
I asked her to pray
that during the night,
her soul really help her release
a certain resentment that she
couldn't consciously let go of.
But could she have
the experiences that
would enable her to do that?
Now, she might not
have any dreams
that she could hold onto to
give her the evidence that this
was happening.
But if her intent
was sincere, that she
would be prepared to have
the conversation when
the opportunity seemed to
happen, then during the nights,
she could expect that
healing to take place.
>> It sounds like, too, that
perhaps our nighttime world is
the true reality.
>> Well, a lot of
people believe that.
It gets to be pretty
abstract type of thinking.
But I guess it's
useful for some people
to explore that
kind of thinking,
to recognize that consciousness
or the mind comes first,
and matter, or
materialization, comes second.
You think that everything we
see around us in the world
was first in
somebody's imagination
before it was
literally the case,
so that the mind or dreams
or the consciousness
is somehow the driving force
behind what we see out there
in the world.
>> Can we not also,
in our dream world,
we could be reliving something,
experiencing something,
feeling something,
predicting something,
having insights to something.
Could we not have all these
things going on at one time
within one dream?
>> Well, certainly.
We can be reliving a situation
that we still have not
resolved that's kind of like a
sliver in our soul, as it were.
We could be recalling
other experiences
that we have that are trying
to inspire us as to ways
to get past that.
We could be receiving
telepathic encouragement
from other souls around who are
trying to help us make progress
with that.
>> Do you--
>> Lots of things could happen.
>> --record your
dreams every night?
Do you keep up with
it every night now?
>> I don't remember my
dreams every morning,
but every time I remember one,
I certainly write it down.
>> You write it down.
>> Mm-hmm.
And then spend some time
with it during the day.
>> And this is something that
we can all develop in our own
life, a way to tap into that
inner world that's going
on at night and help
us the next day.
>> Certainly.
Certainly.
>> What is it about Edgar
Cayce that drew you early on?
And what is it about Edgar
Cayce's work that continues
to touch your life now?
>> Well, I think that the
first thing, of course,
that got my curiosity up was
he said that we could learn how
to interpret our own dreams.
And at the time I heard that,
and as a psychology student,
that was not part
of our teaching.
Dream interpretation
was for experts.
Another part of his teaching
that got me early on
was that we could get the
guidance from dreams, which is
what we've been talking about.
Then what got me involved
with the organization was
I was developing a certain
philosophy about research,
which corresponded with
something that he had said,
in terms of trying to
help people do their best,
like as in going to
the moon, as it were,
and studying psychology
in that sense,
rather than treating people
like rats or machines.
And that was very
inspiring to me.
And then I think that it was
his general philosophy that
came forth from him, this
larger world view, which
I subsequently had encountered
in the psychology of Carl
Jung and others, about the
expansiveness of the mind
and consciousness, and how
to use that to further soul
development and soul growth.
>> He really stressed
that the mind--
everything was a reflection
of where our mind is.
How has that touched
your life, that
understanding that we are mind?
>> Well, one way it has is that
the various frustrations that
I've encountered in life, to
try to treat them as a dream,
that somehow this situation that
frustrates me is somehow trying
to show me something
about myself,
so that I can reach in there
and make contact with that part
of myself and heal it, so that
I can grow to a larger self.
>> Yeah.
>> And this is one of his, you
might say, favorite attitudes.
A person would come
with a problem.
And he'd say, well, thank
goodness for your problem,
because it's going to
teach you how to grow.
>> You had also mentioned
earlier, I know,
in our conversation,
I think at lunchtime,
about belief and expectation.
You touch on that
in your book, too,
that belief and expectations can
have a powerful effect on us.
How so?
>> Well, beliefs,
expectations, theories,
all of these things shape
the way we look at things.
They shape what
we're willing to try,
what we're willing to hope for,
what we'll place no bets on.
So they kind of, you could
either say limit or direct
our attention and our energies.
>> So with a belief, there
is always an expectation?
>> I suppose.
Those are just two words
having to do with the patterns
that you harbor within yourself.
And those patterns tend to
then find their reflection
in the outer world.
>> So a belief and a pattern are
probably pretty much the same
thing, then?
Is that is that
what I'm hearing?
>> Well, what you're hearing
is I don't really carve out too
closely the difference
between words.
But we'll try to think
about real-life situations
and try to understand.
And maybe pattern is a more--
pattern of experience
is a more general word
to describe expectations,
beliefs, theories,
understandings.
>> Yeah.
And should we get rid of our--
>> In dreams, for example, one
symbol that comes up for this
is shoes--
what kind of shoes
you're wearing,
the shoes you're looking for--
because the kind of shoes
we have on affect
how we make progress
through the environment
that we're in.
And we're often
looking for shoes
that will both fit the
situation and fit ourselves.
And that's like a
pattern of understanding.
>> That's great.
That's great.
Are we a mixture of all of
our beliefs and expectations?
Are these things that
change every day?
Is it something--
>> Let me tell you this.
Take away all your experiences
and what do you have left?
Not much.
So we are the sum total
of our experiences.
And maybe all of the experiences
are not from this life.
>> Yeah.
Well, I've understood and
been told that we really
need to let go of our beliefs.
And it helps us to do
that to stay in the moment
and be present in the
moment, to not be attached.
>> That's certainly true.
Uh-huh.
That's certainly true.
If we had more time, it would be
very interesting to talk about,
how do you go back and
forth between dropping
all of your beliefs
and being open
to the creative new moment,
and at the same time,
shaping your expectations
and beliefs to create
a perfect life?
And where is your notion of
perfection going to come from?
And would you be open to
a new one down the road?
>> Yeah.
Well, we're going to
close this time together.
And you are a light.
And I feel like I told you,
I had read this one book--
"Your Mind-- Unlocking
Your Hidden Powers,"
and then "Awakening
Your Psychic Powers."
And I kept writing questions.
And you've got so
much to offer us.
I hope you will come
back and share with us.
And especially with
respect to the dream work.
I have learned a great
deal, and I have grown.
Thank you so much for being
with us on "World of Wisdom."
>> Thank you.
>> And thank you for joining
us on "World of Wisdom."
I'm Carolyn Craft.
I've been speaking
with Dr. Henry Reed.
Stay tuned for more
from the Wisdom Network.
[MUSIC PLAYING]